The Bottle Imp by Robert Louis Stevenson
Copyright Black Cat Publishing
Robert Louis Stevenson was born in Edinburgh, Scotland, in November 1850.
When he was a child, his father told him stories of pirates and adventures.
Robert liked these stories very much.
When he went to university, he first studied engineering, but he did not like it,
so he decided to study law.
But he never worked as a lawyer, because his dream was to become a writer.
And his dream came true.
He became a popular writer and wrote novels, short stories, and poems.
He wrote a lot of stories.
Many of them are adventures and fantasy stories.
He is very popular as a writer of children's stories.
Because he wrote famous stories such as Treasure Island, 1883, and Kidnart, 1886.
Another very famous children's classic is the Black Arrow 1888.
His great success was the strange case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, 1886.
It is the story of a doctor and a drug he discovers.
This changes him from a good person into a monster.
Stevenson suffered from tuberculosis and was often ill.
Scotland is a cold and wet country, and this did not help him.
So he decided to leave Scotland and travel to Spain and France, because there was warm weather.
His first books describe his time there.
During a trip in California in 1876, he met an American woman, Fanny Osborne.
He fell in love with her, but she was already married.
In 1879, Fanny Osborne divorced her husband, and in 1880 she married Stevenson.
In 1888, they decided to go to the South Seas.
They visited many islands in the Pacific, including Tahiti, Samoa, and Hawaii.
They enjoyed this trip very much, and decided to move to the island of Samoa.
Stevenson continued to write many stories.
In 1891, inspired by his visit to Hawaii, he wrote The Bottle Imp.
In 1893, he published this story in a collection of eight stories called Island Nights Entertainment.
All of these stories were about the islands in the Pacific.
Robert Louis Stevenson died in Samoa on the 3rd of December, 1894.
He was 44 years old.
The islanders decided to bury him on Mount Vahir.
Listening activity.
A
A sailor works on a boat.
B
Passengers and objects can travel on a ship.
C
You can keep clothes and other objects in a chest.
D
A pocket is sometimes part of your clothing.
You can carry things here.
E
A coin is a small round piece of metal used as money.
F
A bottle is a glass or plastic container.
G
A hill isn't a mountain, but it is very high.
H
A harbor is an area near the coast, and you can leave your boat there.
I
An imp is a small creature with magical powers.
Chapter 1
A strange meeting.
Ki-Awe was a courageous but poor man from Hawaii.
His real name is secret because he is still alive.
He could read and write, and he was an excellent sailor.
One day he decided to go and see the world.
So he went on a ship to San Francisco.
The city was beautiful with a lovely harbor, and there were many rich people.
One day Ki-Awe went for a walk on a hill.
There were some beautiful houses.
He looked at them and thought.
These houses are nice.
The people must be very happy.
They are rich, so they don't worry about the future.
He arrived at a small but lovely house.
A man looked out of a window.
Ki-Awe looked at him, and the man looked at Ki-Awe too.
The man was old.
He was bald and had a long black beard.
He seemed to be very unhappy.
Ki-Awe was envious of the man because he had a beautiful house.
But the old man was also envious of Ki-Awe.
Suddenly the old man said,
Come and see my house.
He showed Ki-Awe every room, and Ki-Awe was very surprised.
The house was perfect.
You live in a beautiful house.
Why are you so sad?
Ask Ki-Awe.
You can have a house like this.
Do you have any money?
Ask the old man.
Ki-Awe shook his head sadly and said,
I only have $50, so I can't buy a beautiful house like this.
I am sorry you do not have much money.
So take this.
It is yours for $50.
The house.
Asked Ki-Awe surprised?
No. The bottle.
Because all I have comes from this small bottle.
Listening activity.
What is an imp?
An imp is a type of genie.
It is usually a sleep and prisoner inside a bottle or a lamp.
When somebody wakes it up, the imp must serve this person with its magical powers.
And sometimes make their wishes come true.
An imp can be good or evil.
Usually bad imps play horrible jokes on people.
You can read about a famous genie in 1001 Nights.
A boy, a lad-in, finds a magic oil lamp,
but he does not know there is a genie inside.
Suddenly it comes out of the lamp and gives him three wishes.
Chapter 2. The Bottle Imp
The old man showed Ki-Awe around bottle with a long neck.
It was white, but there were also many different colors.
The colors of the rainbow.
Ki-Awe looked at it closely.
He saw the colors change and he saw something inside move.
The old man said.
You can't break this bottle because it is magic.
It comes from hell and inside there is an imp.
This imp is very powerful.
You can have everything you want.
Love, money, Napoleon and Captain Cook bought it and they became powerful.
So why do you want to sell it?
Asked Ki-Awe.
The imp cannot make me live for a long time.
I am old and I must sell it before I die because I don't want to burn in hell forever.
Well, I don't want to burn in hell, so I won't buy it.
Said Ki-Awe.
You can buy the bottle and then sell it one day.
You can be very happy.
Said the old man.
Ki-Awe was confused.
There are two things that I can't understand.
The bottle can make you happy, but you are very sad.
And the bottle can make you powerful, but it is very cheap.
The old man said.
I am sad because I am old and ill and I must sell this bottle before I die.
In the past, the bottle was very expensive, but every time someone sells it, the price must go down.
You cannot sell the bottle for more money or for the same amount of money.
It always returns to you.
Also, you must pay with coins.
People do not believe you because it is so cheap.
Why don't you try it?
Give me your $50 and make a wish.
Wish for another $50.
So Ki-Awe gave the old man the money and wished for $50.
Immediately, there was another $50 in his pocket.
Ki-Awe was very surprised, but he was also afraid and didn't want to keep the bottle.
The old man said.
It is yours now.
Goodbye.
Captain Cook.
Captain James Cook was a very famous British explorer, navigator.
And cartographer.
He was also an astronomer and a mathematician.
He was born in 1728 in Yorkshire, in the north east of England.
He went to the local school and then he worked on a farm.
In 1755, a war started between England and France.
This war didn't finish until 1763.
Cook decided to enter the Royal Navy and took part in several expeditions in Canada and the Pacific Ocean.
He became an expert cartographer.
After the war, the British government asked Cook to explore the Pacific.
This was Cook's first voyage.
In 1768, he left Plymouth in a single ship, the Endeavour.
Between 1768 and 1771, he explored Tahiti and New Zealand.
At that time, people believed there was a southern continent in the Pacific Ocean.
And during his voyages, Captain Cook's secret mission was to find it.
In 1770, he was successful and found Australia.
He explored and chartered its east coast.
He claimed this area of land for King George III of England.
He also gave it a name, New South Wales.
Captain Cook was an intelligent man with a strong personality.
At that time, many sailors died during the voyages.
He introduced some rules of personal hygiene, and he and his men ate many vegetables and fruit.
As a result, less sailors died.
On his second voyage, between 1772 and 1775, he was the first person to go around Antarctica and the globe from west to east.
This was a very difficult voyage because of the cold weather.
Cook and his men spent the winter months in New Zealand and Tahiti and the summer months exploring the Antarctic.
He discovered many islands, including a group of 15 islands in the South Pacific between Hawaii and New Zealand.
He called these islands the Cook Islands.
On his third expedition to the Pacific Ocean in 1778, he discovered and explored the Hawaiian Islands.
He called them the Sandwich Islands.
His patron was the Earl of Sandwich.
He also tried to find a new route to the East Indies, a northwest passage around Canada and Alaska.
But this time, he was not successful.
During this voyage, he found a lot of ice, and so he decided to return to Hawaii for the winter and find food and drink for his next voyage.
At first, he had a good relationship with the natives of Hawaii, and they were friendly.
But then, things changed, and they killed him in 1779.
Chapter 3, Ki-Awe's Wish Comes True
At first, Ki-Awe thought the bottle wasn't really magical, so he left it in the middle of the road.
But when he turned the corner, the bottle was once again in his pocket.
Then he bought a corkscrew and tried to open the bottle, but it was impossible.
He suddenly became very afraid.
He went into a shop and sold it for $60, but later he found the bottle in his chest.
Ki-Awe told his good friend Lopaka, the story, and asked him to keep it a secret.
Lopaka told him,
I am afraid this bottle will give you problems.
Decide what you want from it, and then sell it to me, because I have a project.
I want a sailing ship so that I can travel and buy and sell many objects on the islands.
Ki-Awe thought for a moment and then said,
My dream is to have a beautiful house in Hawaii.
I want to be happy there with my family and friends.
So Ki-Awe and Lopaka decided to go to Hawaii.
When they arrived, an old friend met them and said to Ki-Awe,
I am very sorry, but your uncle and cousin died while you were away.
Ki-Awe was very sad.
Lopaka told his friend,
Your uncle's land is yours now, and you can build the house of your dreams.
But Ki-Awe was very unhappy.
Did the imp kill his relatives?
Ki-Awe and Lopaka went to see a lawyer.
Ki-Awe discovered that his uncle was very rich and he now had a lot of money.
The lawyer told them about a brilliant new architect, so they went to see him.
When they arrived, the architect already had a drawing of a house on his table.
Ki-Awe was surprised.
It was perfect.
It was the house of his dreams.
The architect wanted exactly the same amount of money that Ki-Awe received from his uncle.
Ki-Awe said it was his destiny to have this house and signed a contract.
But he also thought about the old man's words.
It comes from hell.
Ki-Awe decided not to make any more wishes, and he and Lopaka left for Australia.
They wanted to return when the house was ready.
Chapter 4
Ki-Awe sells the bottle.
When they returned to Hawaii, the house was ready, and it was exactly what Ki-Awe wanted.
The rooms, the furniture, the ornaments, the garden, everything was beautiful.
Lopaka said,
It is possible that the imp has nothing to do with this.
I promise to buy the bottle from you, but before I do, I want to be sure that it really has power.
Ki-Awe replied,
I can't ask the imp for another wish.
I promised.
I only want to see the imp.
Said Lopaka.
Then I will buy the bottle from you.
Ki-Awe was afraid, but he was all so curious.
So he ordered the imp to come out of the bottle.
Come out now.
The imp looked out, but disappeared inside again immediately.
Ki-Awe and Lopaka were very shocked and terrified.
They could not move or speak for hours.
Finally Lopaka said,
I want to keep my promise.
So here is the money.
I will buy my ship, and then I will sell this bottle as soon as possible.
Ki-Awe said,
It is night, and the roads are bad.
But I can't sleep, eat or pray with this bottle in my house.
So please take what you want from my house and leave now.
Lopaka was afraid too, but he understood his friend.
He wished Ki-Awe good luck and left.
As Ki-Awe watched his friend leave, he prayed for him.
But he was also very happy that he didn't have the bottle.
Ki-Awe loved his house, and many people came to visit and admire it.
One day he saw a beautiful girl swimming in the sea.
He immediately fell in love with her.
Her name was Kakua.
He did not tell her his name, because he did not want her to know he was rich.
She took him to her father's house.
Ki-Awe, her father, knew Ki-Awe,
and the girl understood that he was very rich and that he wanted to marry her.
Listening activity.
Hello, Kakua. It's Ki-Awe.
Hello, Ki-Awe. How are you?
Fine, thanks. I'm calling because I want to invite you to a concert.
I have two tickets for the Hawaii Flower Band concert.
Great! I love their music. When is it?
On Saturday afternoon, at 6.15.
Fine. When can we meet?
We can meet at 5.30. Is that okay?
Of course. Where is the concert?
It's at the Hawaiian Arena. We can meet at the entrance. Do you know the address?
No, I don't.
It's 14 Gogan Road.
How do you spell that?
G-A-U-G-U-I-N.
What can I wear?
Casual clothes are okay. Just put on a pair of jeans. They are comfortable.
Great. See you there then. Bye.
Bye.
Hawaii.
The Hawaiian Islands are in the Pacific Ocean, about 2,500 miles west of San Francisco.
They became part of the United States on the 21st of August, 1959.
They are the 50th state of the United States and consist of 8 big islands and over 100 small ones.
Most of the population live on 6 islands.
Hawaii, Kauai, Lanai, Maui, Molokai and Oahu.
Oahu.
Some history.
From the 16th century, people from Tahiti and the Marquesas Islands occupied this land.
The first European to discover these islands was Captain Cook in 1778.
At the beginning of the 19th century, missionaries, tradesmen and whale hunters
arrived from England and the USA.
Unfortunately, they also brought many new diseases and consequently 80% of the native population died.
Later, these islands became very important for their production of sugar cane and many immigrants arrived.
In 1941, the Japanese attacked the famous Pearl Harbor U.S. military base on the Oahu island
and the USA entered the Second World War as a result.
Hawaii Today
Today, the main economic activities of these islands are tourism and the growing of sugar cane and pineapples.
The capital of the state is Honolulu on the Oahu island.
This island has the most tourists.
On their arrival, the tourists can relax on the many wonderful beaches of white sand and swim in the incredibly blue water of the ocean.
Some important symbols of Hawaii are hula dances, the lei flowers, grass skirts, ukulele, Hawaiian music.
For surfers, the best island is Maui. Here, there are also spectacular beaches.
The island of Kauai is called the Garden Island. It has many beautiful rivers and waterfalls.
Big Island is the second name of the island of Hawaii. Its capital is called Hilo and the island is famous for its volcanoes.
Particularly famous are Mauna Kea and Kilauea Crater.
Mauna Kea is 4,025 meters high and is a sleeping volcano.
Sometimes you even see some snow at the top.
Kilauea Crater is a very active volcano and erupts regularly.
Luckily, these eruptions are usually very small.
Chapter 5
Kiauea must find the bottle again.
Kiauea was very happy and he sang when he went home.
He sang when he ate his dinner on the balcony and his Chinese servant heard him sing when he prepared his bath.
Suddenly, the singing stopped.
When Kiauea took off his clothes, he saw a mark on his body. He understood immediately. He had leprosy.
In a moment, all his dreams disappeared and he was desperate because he knew it was impossible to marry Kokua.
Then he suddenly thought of the bottle. The bottle could cure his illness.
It was his only possibility. He wanted to marry Kokua very much. He was afraid, but he decided to look for Lopaka.
Somebody told him Lopaka had a big ship, but he was far away. He thought of Lopaka's friends and remembered the lawyer.
He discovered that he was very rich now and had a lovely house on a beach.
When he saw Kiauea, the lawyer seemed worried, but he gave Kiauea the name of another person.
Kiauea met a lot of rich people, but nobody had the bottle.
Finally, one evening, he found a young man. This man was rich like the others, but he looked terrible. His face was white and he had dark rings around his eyes.
Kiauea knew that this was the person. He had the bottle.
Kiauea said, I am here to buy the bottle. The bottle? To buy the bottle? He whispered.
Yes. How much does it cost now? asked Kiauea. The man was shocked and the glass in his hand fell to the floor.
The price? Don't you know the price? I paid two cents for it.
He said, Kiauea answered. So, you can only sell it for one cent and the person who buys it?
He could not finish the sentence. He understood. He could never sell the bottle again. The young man fell on his knees and begged him.
Please buy the bottle. I will give you everything I have.
Chapter 6, a great idea. Kiauea gave the man one cent. He made his wish and then he took the bottle. He looked in a mirror. It was a miracle.
The mark was not there. The problem now was that he did not care about his health or for Kiauea. He thought only about the bottle imp and his destiny.
He was very depressed. Kiauea remembered that there was a concert in town that evening. He decided to go because he did not want to be alone.
Courage returned to him when they played Kiauea's and his song and he decided to return to Hawaii.
He married Kiauea and carried her to his beautiful house. When they were together, he was very happy and calm. But when he was alone, he was always very worried and depressed.
Kiauea loved him very much and brought him much happiness. But Kiauea saw that Kiauea was unhappy and she did not understand.
She thought that she was responsible and decided to ask him. She told him,
Before we married, you were always happy. But now you do not smile anymore.
Kiauea told her his story so she could understand how much he loved her. Kiauea cried and said,
I will save you.
You cannot help me.
He answered sadly. But Kiauea said,
I went to school in Honolulu. I'm not stupid.
There are other countries in the world where people use different money, like in England and France.
For one cent, we can have four French song teams.
Let's go to the French Islands, to Tahiti. We can sell the bottle for some teams.
Chapter 7 Kiauea can't sell the bottle.
Kiauea was very happy and they prepared for the voyage. They took all their best clothes and jewels because they wanted to seem rich.
This was important to sell the bottle imp.
When they arrived, they rented an ice house, a carriage and some horses.
Kiauea was very courageous and used the bottle imp for money.
They learned the local language and when they could speak it, they tried to sell the bottle.
It was very difficult. People didn't think they were honest because the bottle was so cheap.
People avoided them and Kiauea and Kiauea were very depressed.
They could not sleep at night because they were afraid.
One night Kiauea woke up but her husband was not in bed.
She found him under the banana trees, crying silently.
She understood that she must save him.
She left the house and went for a walk.
She saw a poor old man under a tree.
A stranger on the island.
And she told him their story.
She asked him to go to Kiauea and buy the bottle.
Then she wanted to buy the bottle from the old man and save her husband.
So the old man went to Kiauea, bought the bottle and came back.
Your husband cried with happiness.
I am sure he was asleep tonight.
He said.
At first Kiauea hesitated.
But then courage came back to her and she bought the bottle back from him and went home.
Her husband slept like a child but she couldn't sleep or be happy.
When Kiauea woke up, he was very pleased.
He did not notice that Kiauea was sad and could not eat.
He told her the story, thanked her, planned their return home and laughed at the stupid old man.
Kiauea was angry because Kiauea was not happy and he left her alone.
When he came back, he told her she was not a good wife because she was not happy for him.
Kiauea left the house and went out with some friends and they drank a lot.
One of the drinkers, a sailor and an ex-prisoner, was a bad and dishonest person.
He wanted an expensive drink and so he said.
Hey, Kiauea, you are very rich. Bring some money so we can buy some rum.
Kiauea replied.
I'll go home because my wife keeps our money.
The sailor replied.
Don't leave your money with her. You can never trust women. They are all false.
Kiauea started to think this was true because Kiauea was so unhappy.
Chapter 8 A surprising end
When Kiauea went home and opened the door, he saw his wife with the bottle near her.
He was very shocked and did not believe it.
He immediately thought that the bottle was there again because there was an error when he sold it to the old man.
He closed the door and waited for a moment.
Then he opened it again, loudly, but this time the bottle was not there.
He said to Kiauea.
I only want some money because I want to drink some expensive rum with my friends.
He went to his chest and pretended to look for the money, but the bottle wasn't there.
Finally, he understood. He stopped and looked at his wife.
He knew that expression on her face. He was desperate, so he took some money and left the house.
He did not want to drink now.
He went to the bad sailor and said,
My wife has the bottle. We can have money for a drink, but first you must help me.
I must become the owner of that bottle again.
Here are two some teams. Go and buy the bottle from her. Then I will buy it from you, but don't tell her I am sending you.
Then Kiauea said,
When you come out of the house with the bottle, you can make a wish for some money in your pocket or a very good bottle of rum.
You will then understand that this bottle is magic.
So the man left and Kiauea waited for him. His heart was bitter. He waited for a very long time and then finally he heard the man's voice in the dark.
He was very drunk. He had the devil's bottle in his pocket and another bottle in his hand.
Give me the bottle now, said Kiauea.
Hands off!
Cried the sailor.
This is a good bottle. I can't understand how I got it for only two sontines. I certainly will not give it to you for one sontine.
But I can give you some rum. Do you mean you will not sell it? But you will go to hell, said Kiauea.
I am already going to hell and I like this bottle. Go and look for another one.
The bad sailor answered.
Please sell this bottle to me.
Insisted Kiauea.
I don't believe what you say about this bottle.
You thought I was stupid, but now you can see I am not. If you don't want any of this rum, I'll drink it. Good night.
The sailor left and the bottle disappeared from this story with him. Kiauea ran to Kacua very fast. Their joy was great that night and from that moment they lived happily and peacefully in their lovely house.
Listening activity.
Hi Susan. This is Emma. Do you have any ideas for Julia's birthday present? What about a book? Last week I read a really good story. It was called the bottle imp. The author is Robert Louis Stevenson. I know Julia will like it too.
It's not very expensive. I bought it for £3.40. Please meet me outside the bookshop at 4pm tomorrow. You can send me a text message to confirm. See you then.
Thanks for watching.